So sorry for the delay!  Here's what I've got.  Do you think it is too long?

Thanks so much!
grant

--

Title: A Family of Decidable Nonlinear Fragments of the True Existential
Theory of the Rational Number Field

For my dissertation, I am interested in isolating decidable nonlinear
fragments of discrete number theories.  Of particular interest to me is
the isolation of decidable nonlinear fragments of the true existential
theory of the rational number field, as the decidability of the full
true existential theory of the rational number field (Hilbert's 10th
Problem over Q) remains as a difficult and important problem in
arithmetic algebraic geometry.

I've recently obtained the following result: Let L be the first-order
language of fields restricted to only include WFFs formed with the
existential quantifier, disjunction, and relation symbols for
disequality and greater-than-or-equal-to in the natural way (note that
term formation has not been restricted).  Then, the true L-theory of the
rational number field is decidable.  Moreover, this decidability result
holds even when the structure of the rational number field is extended
by an arbitrary collection of F-definable `real-extended continuous
rational endomaps,' where F is the full first-order language of fields
and a `real-extended continuous rational endomap' is a continuous map
from R^n -> R with the property that its image over a rational vector is
always rational-valued.  The proof is very simple, utilizing only
rudimentary model-theoretic and topological properties of Euclidean space.

I will present some background on Hilbert's 10th Problem over Q, present
this proof, and seek advice from attendees as to (a) whether this result
was already known (perhaps it is folklore?), and (b) promising
approaches and directions I might head into for hopefully isolating more
interesting decidable nonlinear fragments.

Thomas Forster wrote:
> 
> 
> The header says it all....
> 
> 
> 
> 

